docs(static mutants): add static mutants docs (#1547)
stryker-mutator/mutation-testing-elements: docs/static-mutants.md

```js
const hi = global.activeMutant === '1' ? '' : '👋';
```

The goal is that Stryker would be able to activate this mutant during test execution by setting `global.activeMutant` to `'1'`. However, since this mutant is only executed once during startup, activating or de-activating the mutant won't help. The `hi` const here is already declared, and activating mutant '1' doesn't change that.

This mutant is referred to as a _static mutant_. They are executed once and cannot be activated or de-activated later during test runtime.

You can identify static mutants in your report with the 🗿 static emoji.

![static mutant](img/static-mutant.png)

You can think of similar constructs in C# with [static constructors](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/static-constructors) or in Scala with [singleton objects](https://docs.scala-lang.org/tour/singleton-objects.html#inner-main)

## How to deal with static mutants

You can deal with static mutants in two ways:

1. You can ignore them<br />
   The mutants will be shown in your report with the "Ignored" state and won't count towards your mutation score.
2. You can run them<br />

>    The static mutants will get a fresh test environment to run in. This might require a browser page refresh or the creation of a new process or app domain. Test filtering is limited since per test coverage cannot be determined.

Reviewer: Should we also mention this _likely_ has a big performance impact with most frameworks?

Author: Good point

## Hybrid mutants

There are also static mutants that also have runtime coverage. For lack of a better word, let's call these "hybrid mutants" for now.

Let's change our example so we can make our StringMutator mutant hybrid.

```js
// greet.js
export function createGreeter() {
  const hi = '👋'; // 👽 mutated to empty string
  return (name) => `${hi} ${name}`;
}
export const greet = createGreeter();

// greet.spec.js
import { createGreeter } from './greet.js';

it('should greet me', () => {
  const greeter = createGreeter();
  expect(greeter('me')).toBe('👋 me');
});
```

> As you can see, we've moved the `hi` constant to a factory method `createGreeter`. This method executes during unit testing in the "it should great me" test. However, the factory method also executes _during the loading of greet.js_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've moved the `hi` constant to a factory method `createGreeter`. This method is now executed **twice**. First _during the loading of greet.js_, and second during unit testing in the "it should great me" test. 
```

Language like 'as you can see' doesn't add anything. Also I think the text that it is executed twice in this example can be clearer.

Author: True

custom_edit_url: https://github.com/stryker-mutator/mutation-testing-elements/edit/master/docs/static-mutants.md
---

In mutation testing, not all mutants are created equal. The performance cost for some of them is higher than others. Of all mutants, _static mutants_ have the most noticeable performance impact and are sometimes not even supported. This page explains what they are and how Stryker handles them.

## What is a static mutant

A static mutant is a mutant that is executed once on startup instead of when the tests are running. 

Take this small JavaScript example:

```js
// greet.js
const hi = '👋';

export function greet(name) {
  return `${hi} ${name}`;
}

// greet.spec.js
import { greet } from './greet.js';

it('should greet me', () => {
  expect(greet('me')).toBe('👋 me');
});
```

When you run StrykerJS on this code, it will create a mutant for the `hi` constant:

```diff
-const hi = '👋';
+const hi = ''; 
```

All Stryker frameworks use mutant schemata, or mutation switching, to activate mutations during test executing. This means that the actual code Stryker produces looks more like this:

```js
const hi = global.activeMutant === '1' ? '' : '👋';
```

> The goal is that Stryker would be able to activate this mutant during test execution by setting `global.activeMutant` to `'1'`. However, since this mutant is only executed once during startup. Activating or de-activating the mutant won't help. The `hi` const here is already declared, and activating mutant '1' doesn't change that. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The goal is that Stryker would be able to activate this mutant during test execution by setting `global.activeMutant` to `'1'`. However, since this mutant is only executed once during startup, activating or de-activating the mutant won't help. The `hi` const here is already declared, and activating mutant '1' doesn't change that. 
```

This mutant is referred to as a _static mutant_. They are executed once and cannot be activated or de-activated later during test runtime.

You can identify static mutants in your report with the 🗿 static emoji.

![static mutant](img/static-mutant.png)

## How to deal with static mutants

You can deal with static mutants in two ways:

1. You can ignore them<br />

>    The mutants will be shown in your report with the "Ignored" state and won't count towards your mutation score. This feature is called `--ignoreStatic`

Reviewer 3: I prefer not to call features by what their commandline flag might be at this time.

Author: Sure, will remove it.

2. You can run them<br />
  The static mutants will get a fresh test environment to run in. This might require a browser page refresh or the creation of a new process or app domain. Test filtering is limited since per test coverage cannot be determined. 

## What Stryker does

Different Stryker versions use different approaches here. In the table below, you can see which choices are available per framework.

| Framework | Detect | Support run | Support ignore | Default |
|--|--|--|--|--|
| StrykerJS | ✅ | ✅ | ✅* | Run |

> | Stryker.NET| ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | Run |

Reviewer: Is this meant to be Stryker.NET twice?

Author: No, second was Stryker4s.

> | Stryker.NET| ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | Ignore |

Reviewer 3: Stryker.NET detects static mutants and runs them, we do not currently support not running them.

Author: Fixed
